Alright. In this video, we are gonna look
at setting up the MapStruct library
for our project, so we can start using
MapStruct. And what we need to do is we
need to include in this new dependency
the mapstruct-jdk8.
So I'm doing everything on Java 8 and
above. And that's gonna work in
conjunction with Project Lombok as well.
And we have a little more configuration
here. Now, it does generate classes for us,
kind of like Project Lombok will
enhance the classes. This is actually
gonna generate classes based on the
interface that we did. Now I saw examples
out on the the web of setting this up
with Project Lombok, where I'm just gonna highlight, this is like taking right
from the MapStruct project, where they're
using Project Lombok. I was not able to
get this working. But here, we do have to
set up the compiler plugin. And with the
annotation processors, you do need to add
both of them. So the way the compiler
plugin works, if you don't specify any,
it's gonna take everything that it
finds on it. The classpath, allegedly, but
I couldn't get it working without it. But
if you just specify MapStruct, then
Project Lombok does not get picked up
because you didn't specify it explicitly.
So I did have to go ahead and say that.
In this project Lombok version, I think
I can click through to it, comes out of
this Spring Boot dependencies parent
POM. So that this is gonna get inherited
from Spring Boot. So, as we upgrade our
Spring Boot versions, we'll keep that
inherited version but the MapStruct is
not a managed dependency by Spring Boot
at this time. So this sets it up. And then,
I'm gonna show you here, the default
component model is none and I'm setting
it to Spring. So we'll get a Spring
component, and let's go ahead and take a
look at the CategoryMapper that I've
created. So this is the Mapper and we
actually do not need this annotation
here. I'm just gonna delete that for
confusion. The Mapping source and target
is a way to have property names that are
different. And actually, I'm gonna show
you a mistake that I made setting this
up. So here's the CategoryDTO and I had
forgotten to add in a
Lombok annotation. So let's go into Maven.
I'm gonna do a clean, and then, just a
compile. The compile is gonna
trigger the generation in the class. And
I ran into some prompts here. So we're
gonna take a look at the target. We
wanna look at generated sources. And
this is a code, that's been generated by
the MapStruct plugin. And you can see
this is now sending any properties therein.
I troubleshot those for every single
amount of time before I realized that I
had forgotten to add in that annotation.
So it was working properly because my
class wasn't getting enhanced by Project
Lombok. So now, if I come in, do another
clean, and let's do another compile, you
can see that that does get built
properly. And let's go inspect that
generate class again. Now we can see the
code doe is generated because once I add
back that annotation for Project Lombok,
it does set up the getters and setters
on the DTO. And you can see how MapStuct
is automatically matching up the
property names and generating this code
for us. So as long as your property names
match, you really don't have much to do.
It's actually kind of a cool part, and
then also, I wanna point out that I did
pass in this compiler argument for
Spring here and there's several MapStuct
compiler arguments that we can utilize.
This is the most interesting one for
us as Spring developers because that is
gonna add this in as a Component. So now,
this Mapper is gonna get picked up as a
Spring Component, a Spring Bean get
mapped into our Spring Context for us
so we can utilize it, just like a
regular Spring Bean. It's actually a
really nice feature of Project Lombok.
And then of course, I did write a unit
test for this, and let's go ahead and run
that unit test, and will verify that
things are running, and this is gonna
be utilizing the instance of that. So we
can see that the test does pass and that
this is just a little helper here and
you write that on your interface. You say
INSTANCE Mappers, getMapper, and then,
pass it in
the class file in the interface and it
will automatically generate that class
and give you an instance of it. In
the unit tests, note that I did not bring
in the Spring Context so that I'm just
getting a hold on this. So this is keeping it
as a pure unit test. And I wanna show
you one refactoring here. So one thing I
did, I did this on purpose because I
wanna show you this. So I wanna come
in here and do a Refactor and Extract.
And let's make that a constant. And we'll
just call it name. And I did not pick it up
there. So I'll replace that name also. And
let's also do this with that. There we are.
That's what I should have done
before. I replace all occurrences. Now
I'll do both of those. And this is a good
habit to get into when you're setting
properties that you wanna make sure
that or equal use. Use variables, do
public static final on them, so they
can't change, and now, we are making sure
that these values do equal. So that's
just good habit to get into when you're
writing your unit test.